AILI XIEYIDAI
Software Development Engineer in Test
11413mactavish height, Fairfax, VA 22030 | (857) 999-5956 | aili.xyd@gmail.com
Eligible to work in the US for any Employer without Sponsorship

Objective To obtain a position as a Software Development Engineer In Test that allows me to
utilize and enhance my testing skills and knowledge while applying my experience to solve
complex problems in a dynamic, challenging environment.

Professional Summary

• A self-taught and highly competent Software Development Engineer In test (SDET) with

•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

over 5 years of experience in IT industry with a focus on both Automation and Manual
testing of web-based application and database, serving various domains such as Healthcare
and Banking.
In-depth understanding of Java and Object-Oriented Programming (OOPs) concepts and
proficient using Selenium WebDriver for automation purposes
Adept at developing Automation Framework from scratch using Java, Selenium
WebDriver, Cucumber, JUnit, and Maven.
Experience in developing and maintaining Test Automation Frameworks such as Data
Driven Framework and Behavior Driven Development (BDD) Frameworks using Java
and Selenium WebDriver. Also, maintained framework and code using version control
system Git. Analysed application functionality and accordingly developed Test Automation
Framework from scratch using Selenium WebDriver and Java, structured using Page
Object Model design (POM), and organized using Maven in Eclipse / IntelliJ IDE.
Developed Cucumber Feature Files using Gherkin, fostering a clear understanding for all
members involved in the project.
Performed various forms of testing such as: Functional Testing, Regression Testing and
Smoke Testing.
Well experienced in Waterfall and Agile Scrum methodologies and a valuable contributor
during Sprint Grooming, Planning, Demo, and Retrospective meetings.
Involved in analysing User Stories specification to create and execute Test Cases.
Created SQL queries to verify data in MySQL, PostgreSQL and Oracle database while
performing Back-end Testing of databases.
Ability to understand the business requirements and translate to technical requirements.
Create High- & low-level technical design documents and architecture for GRC Application.
Cross functional team member who can effectively collaborate, validates requirements and
generate rules against the (GRC)Risks.
Highly flexible and adaptive worker, adept at multi-tasking and thriving in a fast-paced
environment while assisting numerous time-sensitive projects and ability to prioritize tasks.

Professional Skills
• Languages: Java, SQL, HTML, XML, JSON, Gherkin
• Web Services Testing Tools: POSTMAN, RESTAssured
• Build Tools: Maven
• Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver, Cucumber, TestNG, JUnit
• IDE: Eclipse, IntelliJ
• CI tool: Jenkins
• Databases tools: Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL
• Repository System: Git
• Operating System: Windows, Mac

EXPERIENCE
Rally Health
Washington D.C.

Oct 2017 – Present

SDET
● Actively participated in the Daily Standup, Sprint Planning, Sprint Review, Sprint
Retrospective Meetings.
● Developed Test Automation Framework using Selenium WebDriver, Java, Cucumber,
JUnit and Maven for application UI Testing.
● Used Page Object Model structure and Data-Driven functionalities to Automation
Framework, increased reusability and maintainability of the code.
● Creating Feature files and test scenarios in Cucumber using Gherkin language
● Participated in a full life cycle of an Agile project and applied QA practices to ensure
full Functional Testing of new features being added every Sprint, as well as major
Regression Testing for all previously implemented functionalities in every sprint.
● Identified GUI elements using various locators provided by Selenium WebDriver such
as ID, Name, Class Name, Link Text, Partial Link Text, Tag Name, CSS and XPath.
● Automated manual functional Test Cases and developed and maintained the Automation
Regression Suite.

● Actively dealt with data tables, calendars, iFrames, pop-ups, and alerts on the application
using Selenium WebDriver.
● Utilized Cucumber HTML reports and JSON reports to automate test reports and
included screenshots of failed scenarios.
● Efficiently logged and tracked defects using Jira.
● Accurately developed timely Cucumber Reports using Jenkins.
● Used Git for version control and Jenkins CI/CD pipeline.
● Utilized JSON file, Excel Sheet and PostgreSQL database system with Selenium to
perform data-driven testing.
● Experience in manually testing REST API web services via Postman tool and
automating via Rest-Assured java libraries by sending HTTP requests and performing
data validation.
● Conducted mentoring to current and new team members on automation testing using
current tools within my framework.
● Effectively communicated testing activities and findings in oral and written formats.
Environment and tools: Maven, Selenium WebDriver, JIRA, Agile, HTML, PostgreSQL, Git,
Eclipse IDE, Postman.
Navy Federal Credit Union
Vienna, VA

Jan 2016 – Sept 2017

QA Automation Engineer
● Actively participated in fully understanding the project and effectively communicated
and collaborated with the Scrum team to achieve each Sprint goal.
● Developed expertise working in a dynamic Agile environment and efficiently tested
newly proposed changes at any time during SDLC.
● Successfully maintained Automation Framework using Selenium WebDriver, Java,
TestNG, Maven and Page Object Model Design.
● Created and executed both manual and automated Test Cases to perform both
Functional and Regression Testing.
● Maintained Regression Test Suite and supported each major release by executing the
Regression Suite against the application under test.
● Performed Data Driven Testing using Selenium WebDriver and TestNG Framework
and utilized Apache POI libraries to retrieve and export data to external sources using
Java.
● Performed defect logging and tracking using Jira and interacted with developers to
resolve any technical issues.
● Performed Back-end Testing of MySQL databases using JDBC API.
● Generated reports for upper management.
Environment and tools: Maven, Selenium WebDriver, Java, Junit, Maven, MySQL, Page
Object Model, HTML, Git.

Cerner
Silver Spring, MD

Feb 2014 – Dec 2015

QA Tester
● Reviewed Requirement Specification to obtain a better understanding of
the project.
● Interacted with product owner and development team to better understand the User
Stories and Acceptance Criteria.
● Designed effective manual Test Cases based on Business Requirements analysis.
● Created SQL queries to retrieve test data from Oracle database and analyze and
verify results.
● Executed manual Test Cases by using positive and negative test data inputs for UI
Testing.
● Worked directly with the development team to resolve quality issues and retest defects.
● Identified the setup, input data, appropriate steps and the expected responses in Manual
Test Cases.
● Derived Test Scenarios, Documented Test Cases and Collected Test Data for Functional
Testing.
● Performed Manual Testing of each functionality of the application under test.
● Participated in daily and weekly status reporting.
Environment and tools: Manual testing, Microsoft Excel, SQL, PostgreSQL.

