Architect and deliver scalable solutions that meet business requirements.
Lead projects through gating reviews.
Confer with stakeholders to define business requirements, and roadmaps, for complex systems development – from both functional and non-functional perspectives (i.e. concept of operations, security, performance, test, cost, schedule, training, support and disposal).
Collaborate with various technical teams to develop, expand, and refine comprehensive architecture models that drive enterprise solutions with reference architectures and thus minimize point solutions.
Model business and systems processes.
Evaluate alternative architectures with respect to composition, e.g. people, hardware, software (buy vs. build), security, facilities, policies, documents, risks and cost.
Validate the architecture’s compliance to the requirements and verifies the system’s compliance to the architecture.
Develop, document, and communicate plans for investing in systems architecture and enforcement of system standards as necessary.
Contribute to technology strategy and planning. Conduct research and build proof-of-concepts on emerging technologies in support of systems development efforts, and recommend technologies that will increase systems’ flexibility.
Review new and existing systems design projects and procurement or outsourcing plans for compliance with standards and architectural plans.
Provide subject matter expertise to Software Engineers, other Systems Architects, and application teams.
Bachelor's degree in the field of computer science or systems engineering (Master’s degree preferred).
Professional training and/or certifications using Amazon AWS and Microsoft tools and technologies desired.
10+ years of general experience in systems design and integration
Architecture Experience - 5 years minimum across multiple disciplines (Agile Methodologies, Scrum Framework, Risk management, Technology planning, design, development, System Integration).
Extensive experience in developing strategic solution architecture plans.
Exceptional analytical, conceptual, and problem-solving abilities.
Superior written and oral communication skills; ability to present ideas in business-friendly and user-friendly language
Excellent architecture and software development skills.
Proven experience in systems and cloud network design and development.
Strong understanding of information processing principles and practices.
In-depth technical knowledge of networks, storage systems and computing platforms including Amazon AWS, .NET, Windows, and CI/CD pipelines.
Technical knowledge of Cloud Computing patterns, DevOps methods, CI/CD automation practices and Microservices e.g. DDD, Messaging vs. REST, Data isolation, AWS etc.
Strong knowledge of COTS evaluation principles and practices.
Strong knowledge of applicable data security principles and practices.
Extensive and recent full-stack web development skills.
Maintain knowledge of current and emerging tools, technologies, solutions and methodologies.
Create synergies and reuse within and across projects. Able to prioritize and execute tasks in a high-pressure environment.
Experience working in an agile development environment with continuous integration / continuous development;
Strong interpersonal skills.
Strong consultative skills.
Highly self-motivated and directed, with keen attention to detail.
Strong leadership skills and customer satisfaction orientation.
Lifelong Learner – what is learned today will be obsolete tomorrow; demonstrated continuous learning
Willingness/ability to work off-shifts (evening, night-time, weekend)
14 years of experience in software analysis
6-8 years of experience in enterprise application Development using Java-J2EE
Good development expertise in Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, Webservices (REST , SOAP), Spring MVC, Hibernate or IBatis, 
EJB experience is added advantage

Good Knowledge in Oracle or MySQL
Possess good knowledge of object-oriented design and development (OOA/OOD) and J2EE framework and data architectures.

Hands on experience in JBoss and Weblogic/Websphere server deployments
Working knowledge of JUnit Unit testing or any other tool
Working knowledge in Unix
